3Adobe Flex White Paper
may also wish to test applications directly with assistive technology. For example, developers can install a
screen reader on their machine and attempt to complete use cases relying solely on the keyboard for input and
with the monitor turned off.
When testing accessibility, it is important to remember that assistive technology is used to interact with all
applications running on an operating system, not just the application under test. Assistive technology can
monitor events generated by the system, intercept and monitor output from the computer's video card and
sound card, and intercept keystrokes and act on them before they reach an application. Assistive technology's
purposeistoassisttheuser,nottobeatestingtoolfordevelopers.Indetermininglabelsforelements,for
example, some assistive technology may be able to make informed guesses regarding label associations and
thereby work adequately with an application even if has not been created according to accessibility standards.
Inpractice,thismeansthattestingwithassistivetechnologymaynotbesufficient.Oftenitisdifficultfora
developer or quality assurance engineer to effectively evaluate accessibility solely using assistive technology.
To address the difficulties inherent in accessibility testing, Adobe recommends the use of AccProbe (http://
accessibility.linuxfoundation.org/a11yweb/util/accprobe/) or aDesigner (http://www.eclipse.org/actf/downloads/
tools/aDesigner) to test compiled Flex applications. The tools provide a means of inspecting the MSAA
information exported by an application. Developers can use AccProbe or aDesigner to inspect the Flex
applicationasitexecutesandvalidatethatitisexportingproperinformationviatheMSAAAPI.Thistesting
approach enables developers to verify that core MSAA information is being made available by the Flex
application without direct testing in assistive technology.
Note: To display Flex content in an accessible fashion, developers must have the current version of Adobe
FlashPlayerinstalled.Currently,onlytheInternetExplorerandFirefoxFlashPlayerplug-inssupporttheexport
of accessibility information via MSAA. As such, developers should only perform accessibility testing in one of
these two browsers.
Enablingaccessibility
While Flex applications provide a high degree of accessibility automatically, developers must still take a
number of explicit steps to ensure that accessibility is enabled at both the application level and the individual
component level. These steps ensure that assistive technology can access accessibility information for each
application and its components.
InFlex4,accessibilityisenabledforapplicationsbydefault.Inaddition,developerscanensurethat
accessibility is active by updating the Flex compiler setup globally via the command line or for any specific Flex
application.
Enable accessibility in the Flex Compiler
To ensure accessibility is enabled for all Flex applications, edit the flex-config.xml file in the frameworks folder
oftheFlexSDKdirectoryanddefinethevalueoftheaccessible tag of the compiler tag to be true as shown
in the following example:
<flex-config>
...
<compiler>
...
<accessible>true</accessible>
...
</compiler>
</flex-config>
Enable accessiblity in Flash Builder 4
To enable accessibility for a Flex application in Adobe Flash Builder 4, choose Project > Properties, select Flex
Compiler, and select the Generate Accessible SWF File option (see Figure 1).
