46Adobe Flex White Paper
ofthedeployedapplication,providingcolorandcontrastoptionsmaybearequirement.Ifthisisthecase,the
application must allow the user to select from a wide variety of color and contrast options from within the
application or via user preferences. These selections enable users with low vision and users with color
deficiencies to use the application effectively. Application options should allow users to choose from a full
range of color and contrast settings, including at least two high-contrast options--one with dark text on a light
background and one with light text on a dark background--and at least two low-contrast options. These
options should be stored so they can be retrieved and applied for each user, instead of reverting to hard-coded
defaults whenever the application is restarted.
Flickering
For many users, flickering or blinking content is distracting and annoying. For users with photosensitive
epilepsy, it can be dangerous. Content that flashes, blinks, or flickers within certain frequency ranges can
induceseizuresintheseusers.Examplesofflickeringcontentinclude:
 Flashingtext
 Rapidchangesinbackgroundcolor
 Pulsinglightsandstrobeeffects
 Moviescenesthatincludegunfireorlightning
 Timersorbuttonsthatrefreshfrequently
Itisbesttoavoidthistypeofflickeringcontentwheneverpossible.Providinguserswithanoptiontodisable
flashing content does not provide adequate protection, because users may not notice the option in time. A
seizure may occur faster than a user could disable the flashing.
Ifflickeringorflashingcontentmustbeusedintheapplication,ensureusersafetybyapplyingablinkratethat
is either very slow or very fast. U.S. Government standards prohibit content that flashes at a rate between 2
and 55 times per second. This means that any flickering content must blink fewer than 2 times per second or
morethan55timespersecond.Iftheapplicationcomplieswiththisflickerrateguidelinethecontentwillbe
safe, regardless of the size, color, or duration of the blinking content.
