2Adobe Flex White Paper
 Forms
 Focus
 Color
 Flickering
TheexamplescitedinthisdocumentarebuiltusingtheFlexSDK,andeitherAdobeFlashBuilder4or
command line tools. When using the command line tools, accessibility options are set by editing a Flex MXML
document.InFlashBuilder4,mostaccessibilitypropertiescanbesetthroughthePropertiesview.Other
properties closely related to accessibility, such as tabIndex, focusEnabled, and tabEnabled, can also be set
through the same Properties view.
An overview of assistive technologies
To create an accessible Flex application, developers must understand the needs of users with disabilities, how
users with different disabilities interact with an application, and the assistive technologies they commonly use.
Users who are blind typically rely on a keyboard, rather than a mouse, to interact with the computer. These
individuals often use screen-reading software, such as JAWS for Windows (JAWS is an acronym for Job Access
WithSpeech)orNVDAWindow-Eyes,toaccessinformationonthecomputer.Thesescreenreadersandothers
like them convert electronic text to audio speech. For software applications that are accessible, screen readers
can provide summary information about what is on the screen, as well as assist users with navigation within
the application. Applications that use graphical elements in addition to text can be made accessible to screen
reader users by providing textual equivalents for any graphical element that is used to convey information.
People who have a visual impairment other than total blindness may use screen magnification software, such
as ZoomText or MAGic, to enlarge the content on the screen or adjust the contrast between foreground and
background colors. These users often adjust the appearance of the mouse pointer, caret, and focus rectangle to
make them easier to see.
Users who are deaf or hard of hearing rely on visual cues, including captioning or transcripts, to access auditory
feedback and the audio portions of multimedia content. Users with a hearing disability other than complete
deafness may use assistive hearing devices to amplify sound, or they may rely on the ability to increase the
volume of audio produced by an application.
Users who have speech impairments may not be able to produce speech or may have difficulty producing
speech that can be interpreted by voice controlled/activated software applications. Although speech is not
required for the vast majority of applications, voice-controlled or voice-activated applications are becoming
more common. While voice control features can improve accessibility for users with mobility impairments and
other disabilities, it is important to keep in mind that users with speech impairments will need an alternative
way to control these applications and enter information into them.
Individualswhohavemobilityimpairmentsmayhavedifficultymanipulatingamouseorusingastandard
keyboard.Often,theseindividualswillusealternativeinputdevicestointeractwithanapplication.Theymay
usespeechrecognitionsoftware,suchasDragonNaturallySpeakingProfessional,tosubstitutevoice
commands for keyboard and mouse input. These individuals may also use on-screen keyboards that are
activated by pointing devices, hardware switches, or eye gaze technology. Additional assistive technologies
such as word prediction software and foot-controlled mice are also common.
Accessibility testing overview
Assistive technologies obtain information about a Flex application from the Adobe Flash Player instance in
which the application is executing. This information is provided via the Microsoft Active Accessibility (MSAA)
ApplicationProgrammingInterface(API).Whilesomeaccessibilityinformationisrecognizedandprovided
automatically via MSAA, Flex developers must take explicit steps to make most accessibility information
available to assistive technology. Many of the techniques described in this document are directed at exposing
this information to assistive technology.
Ultimately, accessibility is a measure of how well an application can be used by people with disabilities. The
most effective tests for accessibility are conducted through testing by individuals with disabilities. Developers
Effective application
development depends on
an understanding of the
needs of the user.
