10Adobe Flex White Paper
automatically by default, the application may disable this feature if assistive technology is detected; for
example:
import flash.accessibility.Accessibilty;
...
if (Accessibility.active)
{
// perform action desired when assistive technology is running,
such as preventing the automatic playing of audio or multimedia
myVideoPlayer.stop();
}
The flash.accessibility.Accessibility.active property detects the presence of software querying for
MSAA objects. While this generally indicates the presence of a screen reader, it is not a definitive test because
other assistive technologies and software may also query for this information and give the appearance that a
screenreaderisrunning.Itisalsoagoodideatowaitafewsecondsaftertheapplicationloadsbeforechecking
this property to ensure assistive technology has had time to query Flash Player.
Textual equivalents
When an application conveys information visually without the use of text, developers should provide a textual
equivalent to assist users of screen reader software.
Image alternatives
Because screen readers cannot discern the meaning of image or animated graphic elements on the screen,
developers must provide a brief text description of these elements. Text equivalents can be provided for
groups of components or for individual components within an application.
FlexapplicationscommonlypresentimagesusinganImageorLoadercomponent.Toconveythecontentsof
these components to a screen reader, use the toolTip attribute to specify a text equivalent. Tooltip content is
also made visible to sighted users as they mouse over the image. Because toolTip attributes are not keyboard
accessible, developers must ensure that anything conveyed in the image meets the accessibility requirements
for color and contrast to ensure that all users can access the information.
<mx:Image width="60" height="56" source="assets/icecreampint.jpg"
toolTip="Ice Cream Pint"/>
A longer, more detailed description of an image that would not be appropriate to non-screen-reader users can
be provided using the accessibilityDescription property for the object; for example:
<mx:Image width="60" height="56"
source="assets/icecreampint.jpg"
toolTip="Ice Cream Pint
accessibilityDescription="Our fine Ice Cream Pint provides the perfect
serving dish for your homemade ice cream treats"/>
This technique can be helpful when extra detail is provided within the image itself or in a separate panel. When
the description is in a separate panel, it can be difficult for a screen reader user to locate the description
elsewhere on the screen, especially when it changes. Use descriptions only when needed, placing unneeded
descriptions on images will make an application verbose and tedious to use.
To help screen reader users understand complex graphs and charts, an equivalent DataGrid representation or a
link to an HTML page containing a data table can be invaluable. When providing equivalents for charts and
graphics, be sure to provide a summary of the chart, including trends and axes, as well as detailed information
if the user is likely to desire more than the summary information. Detailed information may include facts about
