45Adobe Flex White Paper
perform a task, such as moving the mouse over the material. The following techniques can be used to provide
such alternatives:
 Addingtheword"Error"tothebeginningofanerrormessage,insteadofrelyingontheredcolorofthe
message text to indicate an error
 Labelingbuttons"Submit"and"Cancel",insteadofusinggreenorredimages(oranyparticularcolor)to
convey their purpose
 Addinglargerfontsorboldfacetocoloredtextthathighlightsimportantcontent
 Addingasterisksortheword"required"tocoloredtextthatindicatesrequiredformfields
 Addingvariableborders,shading,orothersymbolstocolor-codeddiagrams,piecharts,andgraphs
To support users of screen readers, developers should also make sure that any information conveyed via color
is provided programmatically using accessibility properties or other relevant Flex component properties. For
example, color is commonly used to indicate state, such as when inactive elements are grayed out. When a
component is not enabled, the enabled property should be set to false rather than simply disabling the
event handlers and changing the color manually. When the enabled property is set to false for a component,
this information will be conveyed to users of screen readers and the focus manager will remove the component
from the tab order.
//ActionScript setting a component's enabled property false
btnSearch.label = "Search";
btnSearch.enabled = false;
//MXML for setting a component's enabled property to false
<s:Button id="btnSearch" label="Search" enabled="false" />
When developers use the FormItem class and set the required property to true, an asterisk will be added to
theformfield'slabelanditwillappearinred.Inaddition,theword"required"willbeaddedtotheaccessible
name of the form field automatically. This programmatic approach provides multiple ways of indicating that
the field is required, which results in an application that is more accessible than one that uses any one
technique by itself.
//MXML code for setting a textual equivalent for color
<mx:FormItem label="SSN" required="true">
<s:TextInput id="txtSSN" />
</mx:FormItem>
Provide sufficient contrast
Users with low vision or color blindness may have difficulty reading Flex elements that provide insufficient
contrast between foreground and background colors. Some of these users may not be using assistive
technology and many will not be using a screen reader. Applications should be designed with color and
contrast requirements in mind from the earliest stages. During that time, designers and developers should
consider the color contrast of all elements, including:
 Text
 Formfieldsandlabels
 Images,graphs,andcharts
 Othercomponentsandcontrols(suchasmediaplaybuttons)
Decorative elements, essential logos or trademarks, or inactive elements are not required to meet sufficient
color contrast requirements.
Provide options for color, contrast, and text size
Currently, Flex components do not support the color and contrast settings selected by users in the operating
system platform. Additionally, font and zoom size selection within the browser do not automatically translate
to larger components in a Flex application running in Flash Player. Depending on the regulatory requirements
